doc: setup logical parition scenario on kbl nuc i7 (#3113)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/tutorials/setup_logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb.rst

.. _setup_logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb:

Guidelines of Setup Logical Partition Scenario on NUC7i7DNB
############################################################

ACRN hypervisor supports logical partition scenario, in which the User OS (such
as Clear Linux) running in a pre-launched VM can bypass the ACRN hypervisor and
directly access isolated PCI devices. The following guidelines provide step by
step instructions on how to set up the ACRN hypervisor logical partition
scenario on NUC7i7DNB boards running two pre-launched VMs. The logical partition
scenario on NUC7i7DNB is shown in
:numref:`logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb`.

.. figure:: images/logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb.png
   :align: center
   :width: 400px
   :name: logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb

   The logical partition scenario on NUC7i7DNB

Prerequisites
*************

> * `NUC7i7DNB <https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/130394/intel-nuc-board-nuc7i7dnbe.html>`_

Reviewer: Let's list the NUC Kit models we support here instead of the board inside the NUC.

Reviewer 2: Ok, list "Intel NUC Kit NUC7i7DNHE" here, thanks!

Author: Fix in next version

      $ git clone https://github.com/projectacrn/acrn-kernel.git
      Cloning into 'acrn-kernel'... 
      ...  
      $ cd acrn-kernel 
      $ cp kernel_config_uos .config 
      $ make olddefconfig 
      scripts/kconfig/conf  --olddefconfig Kconfig 
      # 
      # configuration written to .config 
      # 
      $ make 
      $ make modules_install INSTALL_MOD_PATH=out/

   The last two commands build the bootable kernel image as
   ``arch/x86/boot/bzImage``, and loadable kernel modules under the ``./out/``
   folder. Copy these files to a removable disk for installing on the NUC7i7DNB
   board later.

#. Current ACRN logical partition scenario implementation requires a multi-boot
   capable bootloader to boot both the ACRN hypervisor and the bootable kernel
   image built from the previous step. Install Ubuntu OS to the on-board NVMe
   SSD by following the `Ubuntu desktop installation instructions
   <https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/tutorial-install-ubuntu-desktop>`_ The
   Ubuntu installer creates 3 disk partitions on the on-board NVMe SSD. By
   default, the GRUB bootloader is installed on the EFI System Partition (ESP),
   used to bootstrap the ACRN hypervisor.

> #. After installing the Ubuntu OS, power off the NUC7i7DNB board, attach the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. After installing the Ubuntu OS, power off the NUC, attach the
```

Author: Fix in next version

   SATA disk and storage device with USB interface to the board. Power on the
   board and make sure it boots the Ubuntu OS from the NVMe SSD. Plug in the

>    removable disk with kernel image into the NUC7i7DNB, then copy the loadable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   removable disk with kernel image into the NUC, then copy the loadable
```

Author: Fix in next version

   mounted SATA disk and storage device with USB interface. For example,
   assuming the SATA disk and storage device with USB interface are assigned to
   ``/dev/sda`` and ``/dev/sdb`` respectively, the following commands set up the
   partition mode loadable kernel modules onto the root file systems to be
   loaded by the pre-launched VMs:

   .. code-block:: none

      # Mount the Clear Linux OS root filesystem on the SATA disk
      $ sudo mount /dev/sda3 /mnt
      $ sudo cp -r <kernel-modules-folder-built-in-step1>/lib/modules/* /mnt/lib/modules
      $ sudo umount /mnt
      # Mount the Clear Linux OS root filesystem on the USB flash disk
      $ sudo mount /dev/sdb3 /mnt
      $ sudo cp -r <path-to-kernel-module-folder-built-in-step1>/lib/modules/* /mnt/lib/modules
      $ sudo umount /mnt

#. Copy the bootable kernel image to the /boot directory:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo cp <path-to-kernel-image-built-in-step1>/bzImage /boot/

Update ACRN hypervisor Image
****************************

#. Before building the ACRN hypervisor, you need to figure out the I/O
   address of the serial port, and the PCI BDF addresses of the SATA controller

>    and the USB controllers on NUC7i7DNB board. Enter the following command to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and the USB controllers on the NUC. Enter the following command to
```

Author: Fix in next version

>    get the I/O addresses of the serial port. NUC7i7DNB boards support one serial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   get the I/O addresses of the serial port. The NUC supports one serial
```

Author: Fix in next version

   Clone the ACRN source code:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ git clone https://github.com/projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor.git
      $ cd acrn-hypervisor/hypervisor

   Configure the build options:

   .. code-block:: none
   
      $ make defconfig BOARD=nuc7i7bnh
      $ make menuconfig

   Updates the following configure item:

     *  Set ACRN Scenario as "Logical Partition VMs";
     *  Set Maximum number of VCPUs per VM as "2";
     *  Set Maximum number of PCPU as "4";
     *  Clear/Disable “Enable hypervisor relocation”.

   We recommend keeping the default values of items not mentioned above.

#. Check GRUB boot loader name. 

   .. code-block:: none
   
      update-grub -V
      grub-mkconfig (GRUB) 2.02~beta2-36ubuntu3.18

   In this case, the GRUB loader name shall have ``GRUB`` prefix;
#. Check or update BDF information of PCI devices of each pre-launched VM;
   Check it in the ``hypervisor/arch/x86/configs/nuc7i7bnh/pci_devices.h``.

#. Build the ACRN hypervisor and copy the artifact ``acrn.32.out`` to the
   ``/boot`` directory:

   #. Build ACRN hypervisor:

      .. code-block:: none

         $ make

   #. Copy ``acrn.32.out`` to a removable disk.

>    #. Plug in the removable disk into NUC7i7DNB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Plug in the removable disk into the NUC's USB port.
```

Author: Fix in next version

   #. Copy the ``acrn.32.out`` from removable disk to ``/boot`` directory.

Update Ubuntu GRUB to Boot hypervisor and Load Kernel Image
***********************************************************

#. Append the following configuration to the ``/etc/grub.d/40_custom`` file:

   .. code-block:: none

      menuentry 'ACRN hypervisor Logical Partition Scenario' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-simple-e23c76ae-b06d-4a6e-ad42-46b8eedfd7d3' {
              recordfail
              load_video
              gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
              insmod gzio
              insmod part_gpt
              insmod ext2

              echo 'Loading hypervisor logical partition scenario ...'
              multiboot --quirk-modules-after-kernel /boot/acrn.32.out
              module /boot/bzImage
      }

#. Modify the ``/etc/default/grub`` file as follows to make the GRUB menu
   visible when booting:

   .. code-block:: none

      #GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
      GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=false

#. Update grub:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo update-grub

> #. Reboot the NUC7i7DNB board. Select the "ACRN hypervisor Logical Partition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Reboot the NUC. Select the "ACRN hypervisor Logical Partition
```

Author: Fix in next version

   Scenario" entry to boot the logical partition of the ACRN hypervisor on the

>    NUC7i7DNB display. The GRUB loader will boot the hypervisor, and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   NUC's display. The GRUB loader will boot the hypervisor, and the
```

Author: Fix in next version

as Clear Linux) running in a pre-launched VM can bypass the ACRN hypervisor and
directly access isolated PCI devices. The following guidelines provide step by
step instructions on how to set up the ACRN hypervisor logical partition
scenario on NUC7i7DNB boards running two pre-launched VMs. The logical partition
scenario on NUC7i7DNB is shown in
:numref:`logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb`.

.. figure:: images/logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb.png
   :align: center
   :width: 400px
   :name: logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb

   The logical partition scenario on NUC7i7DNB

Prerequisites
*************

* `NUC7i7DNB <https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/130394/intel-nuc-board-nuc7i7dnbe.html>`_
* Connecting to the serial port, described in :ref:`getting-started-apl-nuc`
* NVMe disk
* SATA disk
* Storage device with USB interface (such as USB Flash
  or SATA disk connecting with USB3.0 SATA converter etc)
* Disable "Intel Hyper Threading Technology" in the BIOS.

  There are two reasons to disable "Intel Hyper Threading Technology":

    * To mitigate L1TF.
    * To avoid interference on the logical partition scenario between logical

>       cores.

Reviewer 2: @leilu This explanation may be note, can you update it? thanks!

Author: fix at doc v3 version.

              Subsystem: Intel Corporation Ethernet Connection I219-LM

   .. note:: 

      Double check PCI devices BDF defined in the ``hypervisor/arch/x86/configs/nuc7i7bnh/pci_devices.h``.

#. Clone the ACRN source code and configure the build options

   Please refer :ref:`getting-started-building` to setup ACRN build envniroment

   Clone the ACRN source code:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ git clone https://github.com/projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor.git
      $ cd acrn-hypervisor/hypervisor

   Configure the build options:

   .. code-block:: none
   
      $ make defconfig BOARD=nuc7i7bnh
      $ make menuconfig

   Updates the following configure item:

     *  Set ACRN Scenario as "Logical Partition VMs";
     *  Set Hypervisor mode as "Partition mode";
     *  Set Target board as "nuc7i7bnh"
     *  Set Maximum number of VCPUs per VM as "2";
     *  Set Maximum number of PCPU as "4";
     *  Set Serial IO type as "Legacy";
     *  Set Base address of serial PIO region as "0x3f8";
     *  Set 2M-aligned Start physical address of the RAM region used by the
        hypervisor as "0x6a000000";

>      *  Select "Enable ACPI DMA Remapping tables parsing".

Reviewer 2: @leilu These hypervisor configuration item is out of date, can you update this? Thanks

Author: fix at doc v3 version.

   Other items is better to keep the default value.

#. Check GRUB boot loader name. 

   Double check GRUB loader name whether have "GRURB" prefix on ubuntu of target

>    board. If no, should update it:

Reviewer 2: @leilu Can you remove this duplicate statement? "Check GRUB boot loader name" is enough. Thanks!

Author: fix at doc v3 version.

   .. code-block:: none
   
     update-grub -V
     grub-mkconfig (GRUB) 2.02~beta2-36ubuntu3.18

   In this case, the GRUB loader name shall have ``GRUB`` prefix;
#. Check or update BDF information of PCI devices of each pre-launched VM;
   Check it in the ``hypervisor/arch/x86/configs/nuc7i7bnh/pci_devices.h``.

#. Build the ACRN hypervisor and copy the artifact ``acrn.32.out`` to the
   ``/boot`` directory:

   .. code-block:: none
   

>       $ make BOARD=nuc7i7bnh

Reviewer 2: @leilu "$make" is formal one, can you check it and update this? Thanks!

Author: fix at doc v3 version.

.. _setup_logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb:

> Guidelines of Setup Logical Partition Scenario on NUC7i7DNB

Reviewer 2: @dbkinder Sorry about this name confuses you.  "NUC7i7DNHE" is listed on the https://projectacrn.github.io/latest/hardware.html#intel-kaby-lake-nuc. As we known, the intel KBL NUC has product name and board name. The platform is used here, "NUC7i7DNHE" is its product name, "NUC7i7DNB" is its board name. BTW, in fact, the board "NUC7i7DNB" is supported, there are three products for this board, please refer to page #iii of https://www.intel.com/content/dam/support/us/en/documents/mini-pcs/nuc-kits/NUC7i7DN_TechProdSpec.pdf. the board name may be precise for developer and customer. Do you have some suggestion about which name is needed to be used? Thanks!

> Guidelines of Setup Logical Partition Scenario on NUC7i7DNB

Reviewer 2: The board name of  "Intel NUC Kit NUC7i7DNHE" on the hw page is “NUC7i7DNB”, can we use  "Intel NUC Kit NUC7i7DNHE" instead of NUC7i7DNB? or do you have another suggestion about this, thanks!

############################################################

ACRN hypervisor supports logical partition scenario, in which the User OS (such
as Clear Linux) running in a pre-launched VM can bypass the ACRN hypervisor and
directly access isolated PCI devices. The following guidelines provide step by
step instructions on how to set up the ACRN hypervisor logical partition

> scenario on NUC7i7DNB boards running two pre-launched VMs. The logical partition

Reviewer 2: NUC7i7DNB is board name, we enable logical partition is for this board, not for all NUC.

> scenario on NUC7i7DNB boards running two pre-launched VMs. The logical partition

Reviewer 2: Yes, for current design, logical partition is only supported on "Intel NUC Kit NUC7i7DNHE" on the hw page.

scenario on NUC7i7DNB is shown in
:numref:`logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb`.

.. figure:: images/logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb.png
   :align: center
   :width: 400px
   :name: logical_partition_scenario_on_nuc7i7dnb

   The logical partition scenario on NUC7i7DNB

Prerequisites
*************

* `NUC7i7DNB <https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/130394/intel-nuc-board-nuc7i7dnbe.html>`_
* Connecting to the serial port, described in :ref:`getting-started-apl-nuc`
* NVMe disk
* SATA disk
* Storage device with USB interface (such as USB Flash

>   or SATA disk connecting with USB3.0 SATA converter etc)

Author: will fix at next version.

* Disable "Intel Hyper Threading Technology" in the BIOS.

  .. note::

>      To mitigate L1TF.

Reviewer 2: @dbkinder yes, thanks! let's update this.

>      To mitigate L1TF.

Author: will fix at next version.

     To avoid interference on the logical partition scenario between logical
     cores.

> * In the logical partition scenario, two pre-launched VMs (running Clear Linux)

Author: will fix at next version.

  are started by the ACRN hypervisor. To set up the Linux root filesystems for
  each VM, follow the `Install Clear Linux* OS on bare metal with live server
  <https://clearlinux.org/documentation/clear-linux/get-started/bare-metal-install-server>`_
  to install Clear Linux OS on a SATA disk and a storage device with USB
  interface prior the setup, as the two pre-launched VMs will mount the
  root file systems via the SATA controller and the USB controller respectively.

Update kernel image and modules of Pre-launched VM
**************************************************
#. On your development workstation, clone the ACRN kernel source tree, and build

>    the Linux kernel image that will be used to boot the privileged VMs:

Reviewer: "privliged" is a new term here.  Do we need to define it? You've been calling these "pre-launched VMs"

Reviewer 2: Yes, thanks, should update it as "pre-launched VMs".

Author: will fix at next version.

   
   .. code-block:: none

      $ git clone https://github.com/projectacrn/acrn-kernel.git
      Cloning into 'acrn-kernel'... 
      ...  
      $ cd acrn-kernel 
      $ cp kernel_config_uos .config 
      $ make olddefconfig 
      scripts/kconfig/conf  --olddefconfig Kconfig 
      # 
      # configuration written to .config 
      # 
      $ make 
      $ make modules_install INSTALL_MOD_PATH=out/

>    The last two commands built the bootable kernel image in the

Author: will fix at next version.

   ``arch/x86/boot/bzImage``, and loadable kernel modules under the ``./out/``
   folder.  Copy these files to a removable disk for installing on the NUC7i7DNB
   board later.

#. Current ACRN logical partition scenario implementation requires a multi-boot

>    capable bootloader to boot both ACRN hypervisor and the bootable kernel image

Author: will fix at next version.

>    built from the previous step. You could install Ubuntu OS to the NUC7i7DNB

Reviewer 2: @dbkinder yes, thanks. We install ubuntu to using GRUB bootloader. BTW, it is hard to install grub bootloader on the clear linux to load images. In the current phase, we use ubuntu to get GRUB boot loader, there may be some methods to install GRUB on the other OS or on the storage directly. We will update this according to your comment.

   board and make sure it boots the Ubuntu OS from the NVMe SSD, then copy the
   loadable kernel modules built in Step 1 to the ``/lib/modules/`` folder on
   both the mounted SATA disk and storage device with USB interface. For
   example, assuming the SATA disk and storage device with USB interface are
   assigned to ``/dev/sda`` and ``/dev/sdb`` respectively, the following
   commands set up the partition mode loadable kernel modules onto the root file
   systems to be loaded by the pre-launched VMs:

   .. code-block:: none

      # Mount the Clear Linux OS root filesystem on the SATA disk
      $ sudo mount /dev/sda3 /mnt
      $ sudo cp -r <kernel-modules-folder-built-in-step1>/lib/modules/* /mnt/lib/modules
      $ sudo umount /mnt
      # Mount the Clear Linux OS root filesystem on the USB flash disk
      $ sudo mount /dev/sdb3 /mnt
      $ sudo cp -r <path-to-kernel-module-folder-built-in-step1>/lib/modules/* /mnt/lib/modules
      $ sudo umount /mnt

#. Copy the bootable kernel image to the /boot directory:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo cp <path-to-kernel-image-built-in-step1>/bzImage /boot/

>    .. note::

Reviewer: These two notes can be combined and simplified.  At the beginning of this section you say to use a "development workstation" but here you're implying you can use your NUC as the development workstation?

```
.. note::
   Use ``cp`` as shown, if you're development workstation is the NUC, or ``scp`` if the image
   was built on another computer.
```

      If image build machine is not target board (NUC7i7DNB) which loads kernel
      image, need to use ``scp`` copy command to update kernel image (bzImage)
      and modules on ubuntu of NUC7i7DNB. 

   .. note::

      If image build machine is the target board (NUC7i7DNB) which loads kernel
      image, need to use ``cp`` copy command to update kernel image (bzImage)
      and modules on ubuntu of NUC7i7DNB. 

Update ACRN hypervisor Image
****************************

#. Before building the ACRN hypervisor, you need to figure out the I/O
   address of the serial port, and the PCI BDF addresses of the SATA controller
   and the USB controllers on NUC7i7DNB board. Enter the following command to
   get the I/O addresses of the serial port. NUC7i7DNB boards support one

>    serial port ttyS0. Need to connect the serial port to the development host,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   serial port ttyS0. You'll need to connect the serial port to the development host,
```

Author: will fix at next version.

   in order to access the ACRN serial console to switch between pre-launched
   VMs:
   
   .. code-block:: none

      $ dmesg | grep ttyS0
      [    0.000000] console [ttyS0] enabled
      [    1.562546] 00:01: ttyS0 at I/O 0x3f8 (irq = 4, base_baud = 115200) is
      a 16550A

   The following command prints detailed information about all PCI buses and
   devices in the system:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo lspci -vv
      00:14.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP USB 3.0 xHCI Controller (rev 21) (prog-if 30 [XHCI])
              Subsystem: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP USB 3.0 xHCI Controller
      00:17.0 SATA controller: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP SATA Controller [AHCI mode] (rev 21) (prog-if 01 [AHCI 1.0])
              Subsystem: Intel Corporation Sunrise Point-LP SATA Controller [AHCI mode]
      00:1f.6 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation Ethernet Connection I219-LM (rev 21)
              Subsystem: Intel Corporation Ethernet Connection I219-LM

   .. note:: 

>       Double check PCI devices BDF defined in the ``hypervisor/arch/x86/configs/nuc7i7bnh/pci_devices.h``.

Reviewer: What should you check in this file?  How would you know if something is wrong?

Reviewer 2: Use comment "sudo lspci -vv" when board runs unbuntu to read PCI devices BDF, these PCI devices BDF is defined on our configuration file "pci_devices.h", check it one by one.

Reviewer 2: @dbkinder Do you have any more comment about this? Or how to make this clearer, thanks!

Reviewer: I guess I'm asking what should you look at? Are you comparing the output of the lspci -vv command with information in the pci_devices.h file?  If so, then you could update this note by saying that:
```
Double check PCI devices BDF defined in the ``hypervisor/arch/x86/configs/nuc7i7bnh/pci_devices.h``
with the information reported by the ``lspci -vv`` command.
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks you to make this clearer, we will update this according to your comments.

#. Clone the ACRN source code and configure the build options

>    Please refer :ref:`getting-started-building` to setup ACRN build envniroment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Please refer :ref:`getting-started-building` to setup ACRN build environment
```

Author: fixed at doc v4 version.

Reviewer 2: Reviewed-by: Xiangyang.wu@intel.com, BTW, can you add commit message about this PR and wait @gvancuts and @dbkinder 's confirm, thanks!

   Clone the ACRN source code:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ git clone https://github.com/projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor.git
      $ cd acrn-hypervisor/hypervisor

   Configure the build options:

   .. code-block:: none
   
      $ make defconfig BOARD=nuc7i7bnh
      $ make menuconfig

   Updates the following configure item:

     *  Set ACRN Scenario as "Logical Partition VMs";
     *  Set Maximum number of VCPUs per VM as "2";
     *  Set Maximum number of PCPU as "4";
     *  Clear/Disable “Enable hypervisor relocation”.

>    It is recommended to keep the default values of the other items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   We recommend keeping the default values of items not mentioned above.
```

Author: will fix at next version.

#. Check GRUB boot loader name. 

   .. code-block:: none
   
      update-grub -V
      grub-mkconfig (GRUB) 2.02~beta2-36ubuntu3.18

   In this case, the GRUB loader name shall have ``GRUB`` prefix;

> #. Check or update BDF information of PCI devices of each pre-launched VM;

Reviewer: What needs updating?

Reviewer 2: PCI devices is checked in the previous step, If default pci devices BDF is configured is wrong, user needs to update it according to the results of the previous pci devices BDF checking.

   Check it in the ``hypervisor/arch/x86/configs/nuc7i7bnh/pci_devices.h``.

#. Build the ACRN hypervisor and copy the artifact ``acrn.32.out`` to the
   ``/boot`` directory:

   .. code-block:: none
   
      $ make

>    .. note:: 

Reviewer: Merge and simplify these two notes, as shown previously.

Author: will fix at next version.

Update Ubuntu GRUB to Boot hypervisor and Load Kernel Image
***********************************************************

#. Append the following configuration to the ``/etc/grub.d/40_custom`` file:

   .. code-block:: none

      menuentry 'ACRN hypervisor Logical Partition Scenario' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-simple-e23c76ae-b06d-4a6e-ad42-46b8eedfd7d3' {
              recordfail
              load_video
              gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
              insmod gzio
              insmod part_gpt
              insmod ext2

              echo 'Loading hypervisor logical partition scenario ...'
              multiboot --quirk-modules-after-kernel /boot/acrn.32.out
              module /boot/bzImage
      }

#. Modify the ``/etc/default/grub`` file as follows to make the GRUB menu
   visible when booting:

   .. code-block:: none

      #GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
      GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=false

#. Update grub:

   .. code-block:: none

      $ sudo update-grub

#. Reboot the NUC7i7DNB board. Select the "ACRN hypervisor Logical Partition
   Scenario" entry to boot the logical partition of the ACRN hypervisor on the

>    NUC7i7DNB displayer, GRUB loader will boot the hypervisor, and the hypervisor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   NUC7i7DNB display. The GRUB loader will boot the hypervisor, and the hypervisor
```

Author: will fix at next version.

   will start two pre-launched VMs automatically.

Logical Partition Scenario Startup Checking
*******************************************

> #. Check whether ACRN hypervisor startup fails or not:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Use these steps to verify the hypervisor is properly running:
```

Author: will fix at next version.

   #. Login ACRN hypervisor shell from serial console.
   #. Use the ``vm_list`` check pre-launched VMs.

> #. Check whether two pre-launched VMs startup fails or not:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Use these steps to verify the two pre-launched VMs are running properly:
```

Author: will fix at next version.

   #. Use the ``vm_console 0`` to switch to VM0's console.
   #. The VM0's clearlinux OS could boot up and login in.
   #. Use a ``Ctrl-Spacebar`` to return to the Acrn hypervisor shell.
   #. Use the ``vm_console 1`` to switch to VM1's console.
   #. The VM1's clearlinux OS could boot up and login in.

> .. note:: 

Reviewer: I'd delete this note and replace it with a sentence:
```
Refer to the :ref:`ACRN hypervisor shell user guide <acrnshell>`
for more information about available commands.
```

Author: will fix at next version.
